[Music]
this video was made possible by
Skillshare home to over 23,000 classes
that'll teach you just about anything in
the fall of 1959 an enormous Soviet
aircraft races across the Atlantic this
plane is unlike anything in the West
it's the largest airliner the world has
ever seen and it's driven by four of the
most powerful turboprop engines ever
built they can push the plane to nearly
900 kilometers an hour which is faster
than some Jets this Soviet airliner is
about to make a big impression because
it's headed straight for the United
States
[Music]
in the mid-1950s the Soviet Union got a
new leader Nikita Khrushchev and he's
unlike his predecessors for one he's
more open to engaging with the West all
that I can say from the way you talk and
the way you dominate the conversation
you would have made a good lawyer
yourself nearly everyone agrees
Khrushchev is a showman
ready to jump at any opportunity to
prove Soviet superiority and in 1955 the
new leader gets a chance to make an
impression meeting in Geneva Switzerland
for a Cold War summit are the most
powerful Western nations and the Soviet
Union and as world leaders descend onto
Geneva Airport crowds are watching and
cameras are rolling
US President Eisenhower lands in a four
engine super constellation a large
state-of-the-art American airliner and
Khrushchev lands in this a plane half
the size of Eisenhower's and he's
mortified by the optics because the
Soviet Union in America are supposed to
stand toe-to-toe but small short-range
airliners like the aisle 14 are really
the only type the Soviet Union produces
in the early 1950s and that means flying
across the country's vast territory can
take over 24 hours with multiple stops
for refueling making for a grueling
journey
but there is a Soviet plane available
that can already fly these vast
distances direct and in half the time
it's just not an airliner it's a plane
meant to be loaded with bombs not
luggage but converting this
intercontinental bomber into a civil
transport will be the fastest way to get
the Soviet Union a new long-range
airliner because the country desperately
needs one and Khrushchev's plans for
world visits are expanding by the day
just weeks after the Geneva summit the
tupolev design Bureau is given a
directive to convert the tu-95 bomber
into a VIP transport Engineers will
remove bombing and protective equipment
and shoehorn to small passenger
compartments into its narrow fuselage
Khrushchev would access his VIP
compartment via our ramp at the rear
luckily this francon liner wasn't the
only plane in the works because a second
parallel project aimed to turn the
bomber into a proper airliner it's do it
engineers would keep the planes powerful
engines and swept wings but they'd melt
them lower to accommodate a wider fully
pressurized fuselage the airliner would
also receive new stabilizers larger
flaps and an entirely new nose gear and
the first prototype was ready in just a
little over two years
[Music]
turns out starting with a tu-95
strategic bomber made for a pretty
remarkable airliner the tu-114 holds the
distinction of being the fastest
propeller driven airliner ever it could
reach an incredible 870 kilometers an
hour these jet like speeds puzzled
Western observers the 1:1 force
turboprop engines are the most powerful
to ever enter service and they drove the
planes enormous contradict propellers so
fast their tips could reach supersonic
also jet like was the airliners 35
degree wing sweep and a service ceiling
of nearly 40,000 feet and in 1958 this
was also the largest airliner with
seating for up to two hundred and
twenty-four passengers not until the
Boeing 747 would a larger plane take to
the skies but while the one 1/4 was
still undergoing testing reshef got an
invitation to visit the United States
and it would be the first ever by a
Soviet head of state the tu1 1/6
converted bomber was ready to make the
trip but touching down in the United
States and what was quite obviously
still a bomber was one thing who's Jeff
would also have to crawl out the rear
end on a ramp so he demanded taking the
one 1/4 but the airliner wasn't ready
not only was the one 1/4 still
undergoing testing there were serious
flaws like Peres line cracks which had
formed around the engines still
Khrushchev was dead set on making a
grand entrance
on September 15th 1959 Khrushchev 1 1 4
took off from Moscow to begin it's
nearly 8,000 kilometer journey to the
United States most of the trip would
take the airliner over the frigid North
Atlantic so precarious was the situation
Engineers even tested a mock-up of the
airliner in a swimming pool just to see
how it might float in the Atlantic along
the way nearly every available Soviet
Navy vessel was put on high alert for
any sign of distress and on board a team
of engineers holed up inside the one 1/4
lower deck used special monitoring
equipment to spot for any sign of
trouble but despite having to battle 160
kilometers an hour headwinds over the
Atlantic the one 1/4 performed admirably
an interesting and historic arrival at
Andrews Air Field near Washington the
huge tu-114 airliner bringing mr.
Khrushchev on his first visit to the
United States
President Eisenhower was there to meet
the Soviet premier the last time that
met was in Geneva four years ago
khrushchev got his grand entrance and
the enormous airliner grabbed headlines
around the world by 1961 the 1/1 force
development was complete than the plane
entered service with Aeroflot early
versions were equipped with some pretty
popular men rather unsub yet features
divided into three classes ranging from
economy to deluxe there were large
tables private sleeping cabins and a
dining lounge early one one force even
at a full-size kitchen and a lower deck
with a dedicated chef the one one fours
impressive range opened up Moscow to
far-flung destinations like Havana
Montreal and Tokyo but while the planes
maximum speed was comparable to modern
jet liners the 1/1 force cruising speed
was usually more modest to save fuel and
increase range and then there was the
noise this was one of the loudest planes
ever produced it's for enormous
turboprops who would have made jet
engines sound like a symphony and the
vibration could cause dinnerware to
migrate right off the end of tables but
the one 1/4 stood out for its
reliability and relative efficiency and
it would go on to carry over 6 million
passengers without a single
design-related accident making it quite
possibly the safest Soviet airliner ever
built but by the mid 1960s airports in
the West were filled with jets not props
and the Soviet Union's only long-range
airliner looked dated in comparison in
1967 a new long-range jet-powered Soviet
airliner entered service and that meant
that the one 1/4 was quickly removed
from most international routes and was
kept flying mainly within Soviet borders
in total 32 of these speedy turboprops
were built and they'd served with arrow
flaw for 16 years until they were
finally retired from civilian service in
[Music]
3d modeling is a powerful tool because
with it you can create just about
anything then you've probably noticed
that I use it in all my videos the
modeling software I use is Sketchup but
there are plenty of even better tools
out there and the best place to start
learning 3d modeling is scale share
because they've got amazing classes
that'll get you up to speed in no time
like Oliver Villiers
excellent introductory course on blender
I'm working through his class to see if
blender can help me take my modeling to
the next level because it's got some
pretty powerful features and that's what
I really love about skill share with
over 23,000 classes at your fingertips
covering just about anything you can
jump right in and learn whatever it is
you want to learn whether it's
introductory or something more advanced
a premium subscription to scale share is
less than ten dollars a month but if
you're one of the first 500 people to
sign up using the link in the
description below you can get two months
for absolutely free
[Music]